{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf130
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red62\green62\blue62;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 This document describes the variables in the UCI-HAR data set, which are used in the run_analysis.R script to produce two data sets.\
\
\pard\tx623\tx1247\tx1870\tx2494\tx3118\tx3741\tx4365\tx4988\tx5612\tx6236\tx6859\tx7483\tx8107\tx8730\tx9354\tx9977\tx10601\tx11225\tx11848\tx12472\tx13096\tx13719\tx14343\tx14966\tx15590\tx16214\tx16837\tx17461\tx18085\tx18708\tx19332\tx19955\tx20579\tx21203\tx21826\tx22450\tx23074\tx23697\tx24321\tx24944\tx25568\tx26192\tx26815\tx27439\tx28062\tx28686\tx29310\tx29933\tx30557\tx31181\tx31804\tx32428\tx33051\tx33675\tx34299\tx34922\tx35546\tx36170\tx36793\tx37417\tx38040\tx38664\tx39288\tx39911\li80\fi-80\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs25\fsmilli12990 \cf2 The original data consists of measurements of 561 variables for 30 participants/subjects for 350 time steps each. Test directory contains the data for 9 subjects, and Train contains the remaining data.
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The 81 variables in fullMeasurementsdt are: \
\
 [1] "subject"                        \
 [2] "activity"                       \
 [3] "tBodyAcc-mean()-X"              \
 [4] "tBodyAcc-mean()-Y"              \
 [5] "tBodyAcc-mean()-Z"              \
 [6] "tBodyAcc-std()-X"               \
 [7] "tBodyAcc-std()-Y"               \
 [8] "tBodyAcc-std()-Z"               \
 [9] "tGravityAcc-mean()-X"           \
[10] "tGravityAcc-mean()-Y"           \
[11] "tGravityAcc-mean()-Z"           \
[12] "tGravityAcc-std()-X"            \
[13] "tGravityAcc-std()-Y"            \
[14] "tGravityAcc-std()-Z"            \
[15] "tBodyAccJerk-mean()-X"          \
[16] "tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y"          \
[17] "tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z"          \
[18] "tBodyAccJerk-std()-X"           \
[19] "tBodyAccJerk-std()-Y"           \
[20] "tBodyAccJerk-std()-Z"           \
[21] "tBodyGyro-mean()-X"             \
[22] "tBodyGyro-mean()-Y"             \
[23] "tBodyGyro-mean()-Z"             \
[24] "tBodyGyro-std()-X"              \
[25] "tBodyGyro-std()-Y"              \
[26] "tBodyGyro-std()-Z"              \
[27] "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X"         \
[28] "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y"         \
[29] "tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z"         \
[30] "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-X"          \
[31] "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y"          \
[32] "tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z"          \
[33] "tBodyAccMag-mean()"             \
[34] "tBodyAccMag-std()"              \
[35] "tGravityAccMag-mean()"          \
[36] "tGravityAccMag-std()"           \
[37] "tBodyAccJerkMag-mean()"         \
[38] "tBodyAccJerkMag-std()"          \
[39] "tBodyGyroMag-mean()"            \
[40] "tBodyGyroMag-std()"             \
[41] "tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()"        \
[42] "tBodyGyroJerkMag-std()"         \
[43] "fBodyAcc-mean()-X"              \
[44] "fBodyAcc-mean()-Y"              \
[45] "fBodyAcc-mean()-Z"              \
[46] "fBodyAcc-std()-X"               \
[47] "fBodyAcc-std()-Y"               \
[48] "fBodyAcc-std()-Z"               \
[49] "fBodyAcc-meanFreq()-X"          \
[50] "fBodyAcc-meanFreq()-Y"          \
[51] "fBodyAcc-meanFreq()-Z"          \
[52] "fBodyAccJerk-mean()-X"          \
[53] "fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y"          \
[54] "fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z"          \
[55] "fBodyAccJerk-std()-X"           \
[56] "fBodyAccJerk-std()-Y"           \
[57] "fBodyAccJerk-std()-Z"           \
[58] "fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-X"      \
[59] "fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-Y"      \
[60] "fBodyAccJerk-meanFreq()-Z"      \
[61] "fBodyGyro-mean()-X"             \
[62] "fBodyGyro-mean()-Y"             \
[63] "fBodyGyro-mean()-Z"             \
[64] "fBodyGyro-std()-X"              \
[65] "fBodyGyro-std()-Y"              \
[66] "fBodyGyro-std()-Z"              \
[67] "fBodyGyro-meanFreq()-X"         \
[68] "fBodyGyro-meanFreq()-Y"         \
[69] "fBodyGyro-meanFreq()-Z"         \
[70] "fBodyAccMag-mean()"             \
[71] "fBodyAccMag-std()"              \
[72] "fBodyAccMag-meanFreq()"         \
[73] "fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean()"     \
[74] "fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std()"      \
[75] "fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-meanFreq()" \
[76] "fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean()"        \
[77] "fBodyBodyGyroMag-std()"         \
[78] "fBodyBodyGyroMag-meanFreq()"    \
[79] "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()"    \
[80] "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std()"     \
[81] "fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-meanFreq()"\
\
\
The variables in averageMeasurementsdt are averages for each of variables 3-81 above, grouped by activity and subject. For instance, varibles 1-5 of averageMeasurementsdt are:\
\
The average is denoted by the \'93Avg_\'94 prefix.\
\
 [1] "activity"                           \
 [2] "subject"                            \
 [3] "Avg_tBodyAcc-mean()-X"              \
 [4] "Avg_tBodyAcc-mean()-Y"              \
 [5] "Avg_tBodyAcc-mean()-Z"   \
\
\
\
More information about the meaning of the variables is below:\
\
\
Quoting the UCI_HAR Dataset README.txt:\
\
\
==================================================================\
Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset\
Version 1.0\
==================================================================\
Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto.\
Smartlab - Non Linear Complex Systems Laboratory\
DITEN - Universit\'87 degli Studi di Genova.\
Via Opera Pia 11A, I-16145, Genoa, Italy.\
activityrecognition@smartlab.ws\
www.smartlab.ws\
==================================================================\
\
The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. \
\
The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain. See 'features_info.txt' for more details. \
\
For each record it is provided:\
======================================\
\
- Triaxial acceleration from the accelerometer (total acceleration) and the estimated body acceleration.\
- Triaxial Angular velocity from the gyroscope. \
- A 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables. \
- Its activity label. \
- An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.\
\
The dataset includes the following files:\
=========================================\
\
- 'README.txt'\
\
- 'features_info.txt': Shows information about the variables used on the feature vector.\
\
- 'features.txt': List of all features.\
\
- 'activity_labels.txt': Links the class labels with their activity name.\
\
- 'train/X_train.txt': Training set.\
\
- 'train/y_train.txt': Training labels.\
\
- 'test/X_test.txt': Test set.\
\
- 'test/y_test.txt': Test labels.\
\
The following files are available for the train and test data. Their descriptions are equivalent. \
\
- 'train/subject_train.txt': Each row identifies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample. Its range is from 1 to 30. \
\
- 'train/Inertial Signals/total_acc_x_train.txt': The acceleration signal from the smartphone accelerometer X axis in standard gravity units 'g'. Every row shows a 128 element vector. The same description applies for the 'total_acc_x_train.txt' and 'total_acc_z_train.txt' files for the Y and Z axis. \
\
- 'train/Inertial Signals/body_acc_x_train.txt': The body acceleration signal obtained by subtracting the gravity from the total acceleration. \
\
- 'train/Inertial Signals/body_gyro_x_train.txt': The angular velocity vector measured by the gyroscope for each window sample. The units are radians/second. }